SMART PORT CITIES - 335 COPYRIGHT
"In accordance with the copyright provisions, the content of this material has been modified for teaching purposes only, specifically to support the instruction of the subject: Port Logistics Risk Management." The authorized entity solely permitted to use this material is: SouthStar Management Institute (SMI) Da Nang, Vietnam.
This course is designed for the undergraduate level/program."
"Copyright Notice: Any other party wishing to access this POWERPOINT PRESENTATION must request the information directly via email at:" Dr. Luis Alfaro Director of Ports, Logistics and SCM DUY TAN UNIVERSITY The SouthStar Management Institute (SMI) 254 Nguyen Van Linh St., Danang, Vietnam T: (+84) 236.365.0402 (Ext. 606) - (+84) 236.382.7111 E: luisdtusci@gmail.com | alfaroluisalfredo@dtu.edu.vn W: http://smi.edu.vn/
Strategies for Sustainability Angela Carpenter Rodrigo Lozano Editors European Port Cities in Transition Moving Towards More Sustainable Sea Transport Hubs Springer
Public Administration and Information Technology 37 Elsa Estevez Theresa A. Pardo Hans Jochen Scholl Editors Smart Cities and Smart Governance By: Dr. Luis ALFARO
SMART PORT CITIES CHAPTER 6 PUBLIC POLICIES AND ACTS
Contents 1 | Introduction 2 | Smart City Framework: Where to Start? 3 | Smart City Framework 4 | Regulatory Framework 5 | Governance
Contents 6 | Public Policy 7 | Policy Principles for Smart Cities 8 | Policies and Acts 9 | Transportation Policy 10 | Summary
1. Introduction Studies reveal that more than half of the World's population now lives in urban areas. Due to the enhanced population, urban areas face some basic physical, technical and material problems viz., air pollution, scarcity of resources, traffic congestions, human health concerns, difficulty in waste management, deteriorating and aging infrastructures. The concepts of smart cities will able to solve such issues and problems faced by the cities of all sizes today. This concept has evolved from the application of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) to enhance the quality and performance of public services, to reduce costs and resource consumption.
Objectives After studying this unit you should be able to • Understand the framework for smart city • Explain the need for a regulatory framework • Define governance, e-governance and smart governance • Describe policies and acts for smart cities.
2. Smart City Framework: Where to Start? A framework is defined as an underlying structure to a set of regulations. It consists of a several complementary concepts or elements in support of something larger. On the other hand, regulations are the principles, laws, or rules designed to control or govern behaviour of a system/organization. Most of the cities are having smart city vision and stepping towards in developing strategies and creating blueprints.
Smart City Framework: Where to Start? Most unfortunately, few blueprints start and end with vision dominated by the physical design. Such visions are idealistic and impractical to implement. Hence, a proper framework need to be followed which helps the stakeholders to shift from this confusion. It is important to note that there will be many interpretations of a smart city framework. A good framework should include the elements that are discussed in the below paragraphs which makes stakeholder work easy in developing and implementing smart city strategies. By adopting such frameworks, stakeholders can move their ideas from mere vision to action.
Government The governments should support the smart city protocol initiatives. The smart city protocol is a step in the right direction in bringing multiple groups together to establish common language for smart cities. Such types of initiatives need support and involvement not only from the government sector, but also from the wider smart city community. Further, the governments should work more closely with the private sector to educate them on stakeholder roles and, in particular, how policies and business models are necessary for implementing smart city solutions.
3. Smart City Framework Smart City Framework is a methodology or design that facilitates both the public and private sectors to effectively plan and implement the Smart City strategies. Cities adopting smart city policies undergo this stage in an intuitive way without a proper structure and action plan. A well structured framework not only enables efficiency, but also transparency and clarity into how cities work. The officials and leaders of city define and initiate the actions based on the city objective. For this reason, the smart city framework starts with the city objectives based on which all initiatives are measured.
Figure 13.1: Stages of Smart City Framework Stage 1 | Objectives and Purposes of City Stage 2 | Indicators of City Stage 3 | Elements of City Stage 4 | City Content: Best Practices & Policy examples
Smart City Framework • Stage 1: Objectives and Purposes of City To understand how a city operates, a framework must ultimately link the city's objectives (pillars) to projects, policies, and initiatives. • Stage 2: Indicators of City As known that city objectives are high level and somewhat transient, it is important to connect them to "city indicators," which measure and benchmark cities using defined and specific methodologies. A different set of indicators may be required for different cities.
TABLE 13.1: Indicators of Smart Cities Well-being | Jobs | Employment rate (%) Well-being | Jobs | People satisfied with their job (%) Well-being | Income | People with enough money to cover their needs (%) Well-being | Housing | Overcrowding conditions (rooms per inhabitant) Well-being | Housing | People satisfied with affordability of housing (%) Well-being | Access to services | Performance of public transport network (ratio between accessibility and proximity to amenities or people) Well-being | Access to services | People satisfied with public transport (%) Well-being | Access to services | Average commuting with public transport (%) Well-being | Education | People from 25 to 64 years old with at least tertiary education (%) Well-being | Political participant | Voter turnout (voters in the last national election as a% of the number of persons with voting rights) Well-being | Health | Life expectancy at birth (years) Well-being | Health | People declaring good or very good health (%) Well-being | Environmental quality | Exposure to PM 2.5 in μ/m³, population weighted (micrograms per cubic metre) Well-being | Personal safety | Percentage of population that feel safe walking alone at night around the area they live Well-being | Personal safety | Transport-related mortality rates (deaths per 100 000 people) Well-being | Personal safety | Percentage of population that have been assaulted or mugged in the previous 12 months tainability | Life satisfaction | Satisfaction with life as a whole (from 0 to 10) tainability | Energy | Energy consumption per capita (kgoe per person) tainability | Energy | Electricity production from renewable sources(%) tainability | Climate | CO₂ emissions per electricity production (in tons of CO₂ equivalent per gigawatt hours) tainability | Biodiversity | Change in tree cover (percentage point) tainability | Material footprint | Municipal waste rate (kilos per capita) tainability | Material footprint | Municipal waste that is recycled (%) tainability | Material footprint | Number of motor road vehicles per 100 people tainability | Material footprint | Change in land consumption per capita s (quared mu per capita) ilience | Health and social | Active physicians rate (active physicians per 1000 people) ilience | Health and social | People with jobs that can be performed remotely (% ilience | Health and social | Population without access to health care (%) ilience | Institutions | People with confidence in the national government ( ilience | Institutions | People with confidence in judicial system and court (%) ilience | Institutions | People with confidence in the local police force (%) ilience | Institutions | People that believe corruption is spread throughout government in the country (%)
Smart City Framework • Stage 3: Elements of City This stage of framework describes the physical elements of a city, namely, transportation, real estate, utilities and services, which are then connected to city objectives, indicators and content. Each of these elements can be drill down into subsections. Figure 13.2: Hierarchy of City ElementsFigure Transportation | Real Estate | Utilities | Services Rail | Residential | Water | Education Road | Commercial | Power | Health care Air | Hostels | Waste | Police/Fire Logistics | Public Buildings | Gas | Municipal services
Smart City Framework • Stage 4: City content This stage encloses how smart city solutions are implemented. It is connected directly to stage 3 and then to stage 1, as it provides information and enables the identification of information that is relevant to state 1 i.e., city objectives. Itis important to emphasize that stakeholder roles must be established prior to developing any smart city plan because these players have the most influence on city initiatives and operations.
Figure 13.3: Stakeholder Roles and Responsibilities Policy • Government at all levels set policies • NGO's, Public, universities and others influence policy Regulators • Regulators influence and create policies • Semi-government agencies and NGOs perform a regulatory role Developers • Developers include real estate, utilities, transportation and city services • Developers contract with architects, designers, consultant Owners • Owners include real estate, utilities, transportation and city services entities • Owners often own assets long term Operators • Operators comprise various groups such as • real estate and facilities managers • government owned publich entities • private operators
4. Regulatory Framework A regulatory framework can be defined as the high-level questions that a conscientious regulator would ask of themselves throughout the process of regulations development. It is a model that people can use for reforming and enacting regulations in an effective and logical way. Many governments rely on such frameworks for handling regulatory matters and developing flexible and useful networks of regulations, laws, and rules.
Need For a Regulatory Framework The smart cities mission is one of the most impressive programmes in the recent years. To execute its objectives, the governments should introduce the smart cities guidelines. This guidelines act as an ample policy document that defines smart cities as cities that interconnect citizens, data, devices and objects to a centralised network infrastructure which will be utilised for urban planning, social and economic development of the city and its citizens. Smart cities will rely on information communication infrastructure and data for its service delivery mechanisms.
Figure 13.4 Governance Inputs Strategy (Pyramid structure, bottom to top) Policies and Procedures Rules Regulations Statutes Acts Governance
E Governance Electronic governance or e-governance is an integration of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in all the processes, with the aim of improving government ability to address the requirements of the general public. The basic function of e-governance is to shorten processes for all, i.e. government, businesses, citizens, etc., at national, state and local levels. In simple terms, it is the use of electronic means, to endorse good governance. It includes the publishing of policy and programme related information to transact with citizens.
Smart Governance Smart governance is an advanced form of e-governance. It is the capacity of employing intelligent and adaptive acts and activities of looking after and making decision about something. In simple terms, it is about making the right policy choices and the implementation of same. It widely represents the collection of technologies, policies, people, resources, practices, social norms and information that interact to support smart city governing activities. The development and maintenance of smart city depends on the developed policies for smart governance.
Smart Governance Public information assessment must be made easy for the general public in the city. This should not either break the security/privacy or misuse the information assets. Participation of public in policy making and democracy will be expected in such smart cities. For instance, MyGov, a govt of India initiative, may facilitate citizens' participation in public policy and urban governance. Smart governance may be enabled for a citizen by the use of e-governance. Transparent decision making, sharing information and stakeholder's involvement in enhancing the government services will play crucial role in accomplishing smarter governance. Further, public-private relationship and people participation can be treated as an important element of smart city governance.
Figure 13.5: Elements of Smart Governance (Central element: Smart governance) Access to information Public utilities and services Democratic participation Women participation Smart policing and crime control Urban planning support Grievance management Information security and risk management
Figure 13.6: Smart Governance Evolution Electronic Government: • Administrative efficiency • Interoperability • Service improvement (Leads to) Smart government: • Evidence-based participatory decision-making process • The rise of social media (Smart government leads to) Smart governance: • Data and evidence based polity making • Collaborative open and citizen-driven from of governance (Smart governance leads to) Smart city governance: • Improving the quality of life • Contextual conditions, governance models and public value
Role of Smart City in Governance The smart city concept is linked with other concepts such as digital city, intelligent city, information city and the knowledge city. There may be difference in terms or words, but all these concepts majorly relay on the use of ICTs. A smart city enables the government in understanding, monitoring analyzing, and planning the city in order to enhance quality of life of its residents. In the framework of smart city, e-governance or electronic governance acts as a tool through which the processes, principle and practices of the government can be improved. Smart governance consists of aspects related to services for citizens, political participation and the functioning of administration. Further, ICTs play a prominent role not only in improving the efficiency and transparency of government
Figure 13.7: Factors of Smart City Governance Communitcation Collaboration Participation and Partnership Leadership and championship Data-Exchange Service and application integration Accountability Transparency
6. Public Policy From the above definitions, it is evident that public policies are governmental decisions, and are the result of activities which the government undertake in pursuance of certain objectives and goals. Moreover, formulation and implementation of public policy involves a well designed pattern or course of activity. It needs a thoroughly close knit relation and communication between the important governmental organizations viz., legislature, political executive, judiciary and bureaucracy.
7. Public Policy The following points will give clear meaning of public policy. i. Public Policies are objective and goal oriented. These are defined and implemented in order to attain the objectives which the government has framed for the ultimate advantage of the community. ii. Public policy is the result of the government's combined efforts. It means that it is a course of activity of the governmental officials in a collective sense than being termed as their discrete and segregated decisions.
8. Public Policy i. Public policy is what the government actually decides, agrees and chooses to do. It is the association of the government units to the definite field of political environment in a given administrative system. ii. Public policy depicts the concern of the government and engages its action to a particular problem on which the policy is made. It has the sanction of law and authority behind it.
Public Policy Making: Few Characteristics It will be advantageous to throw some light on different characteristic of public policy to understand the nature and meaning of it. Some of the major characteristics of public policy making are giving below: i. Complex Process: Policy building entails many elements, which are interconnected by communication and feedback loops and which interact in different ways. Some parts of the process are clear and directly observable, but some other proceed through hidden channels that the officials themselves are often only partly aware of.
Public Policy Making: Few Characteristics i. Dynamic Process: Policy making process is a continuous activity that takes place within a structure and requires a continuing input of resources and motivation. Policy making can be regarded as a dynamic process, as it changes with time. ii. Includes various components: Public policy formulation involves a great variety of substructures. The integrity of these substructures and the degree of its involvement in policy making may differ.
Public Policy Making: Few Characteristics i. Formulated by government bodies/authorities: Primarily public policy making is directed at governmental bodies/authorities, and only intermediately and secondarily by other agencies. ii. Involves Stakeholders: Voters, legislators, industrial workers, intellectuals, political parties, bureaucrats, and political executives are the various categories who participate in public policy making and can influence the policy process to a great extent.
Public Policy Making: Few Characteristics i. Decision-Making and results in action: Policy making is a process of decision-making because it suggests to use decision-making models for dealing with policy framing. ii. Lays down Major Guidelines: In most of the situation, public policy lay down general directives in stead of thorough instructions, mail lines of action to be followed. Once the main lines of action are decided, detailed sub-policies that translate the general theory into more concrete terms are usually needed to execute it.
Public Policy Making: Few Characteristics i. Directed at the Future: The process of policy making is directed at the future. It brings the everpresent elements of uncertainty and doubtful prediction that establish the basic tone of nearly all policy making. Actual policy making inclined to devise policies in unclear and elastic terms; because the future is so uncertain. . It allows policy makers to regulate their policy according to emerging facts and facilitate them to guard against unexpected circumstances.
Types of Public Policy i. Substantive. This kind of policies is concerned with development and general welfare of the society. The results of substantive policy formulation are like anti-pollution legislation, law and order enforcement, economicstabilisation, provision of education and employment opportunities etc. These policies have huge areas of operation affecting the development and general welfare of the society as a whole. . Substantive policies are not related to only a privileged or particular areas or segments of the society. It has to be framed keeping in view the prime character of the constitution socio-economic problems and the level of moral claims of the society.
Types of Public Policy i. Regulatory. Regulatory policies constitute business, public utilities, trade, safety measures etc. This category of regulation is done by individual organizations that operate behalf of the government. Reserve Bank of India, Life Insurance Corporation, State Electricity Boards, State Transport Corporations, State Financial Corporations, Hindustan Steel etc., are involved in regulatory activities in India. ii. Distributive. Distributive policies are intended for particular sectors of the society. It can be in the field of health services, grant of goods or public welfare. These mainly contain all welfare programmes and public assistance.
Types of Public Policy i. Re-distributive. Re-distributive policies are associated with rearrangement of policies which brings basic economic and social changes. Certain public goods and welfare services are disproportionately divide among certain segments of the society, these goods and services are streamlined through re-distributive policies. ii. Capitalization. The financial subsidies that are distributed or given by Union government to the local and state governments come under the capitalization policies. Such types of subsidies are granted to state and central business undertakings. These types of policies are different in nature when compare to re-distributive, substantive, distributive and regulatory policies.
7. Policy Principles for Smart Cities Nowadays, smart technologies are transforming people's life easier and convenient. They are transforming cities more convenient and more workable with sustainability. Undoubtedly, cities will become horizontal IoT platforms where individual use cases fluidly interconnect to maximize efficiency, productivity and citizen ease-of-use. For successful deployment of smart city, there should be a smart integration of technology. This will result in resolving the needs and goals of various communities.
8. Policy Principles for Smart Cities i. Involve Stakeholders. The private and public partnerships need to include stakeholders to plan, improve workability, sustainability, liveability across a wide range of communities. ii. Devote in digital infrastructure and latest technologies. With some billion numbers of devices to connect to internet in the future, huge broadband networks are essential to realize the importance of smart cities across various sectors viz., government, industries and transportation. Planned and effective management will encompass technologies to enable the differences in communication and connectivity requirements for smart city services and products.
9. Policy Principles for Smart Cities i. Encourage Investment and Innovation. Policies should be framed that encourages innovations and investment by collaborating with different industries, academia, governments and R&D cells to adopt smart cities rules and regulations. ii. Enable Connectivity. The different systems and devices should be connected to internet and communicate each other to enhance efficiency of smart cities. c. Usage of open standards as documented by globally relevant standards-setting organizations, and d. Ease of connectivity and interoperability of systems, platforms, software and infrastructure.
10. Policy Principles for Smart Cities i. Integrate Privacy and Security. By using various engineering methods and technologies, privacy and security should be designed into smart city systems by utilizing best privacy-by-design as well as secure development practices. ii. Encourage Open Participation. The private sector should direct the development of open standards that facilitate interoperability, and associate with the public sector to support the distribution of standards and best practices.
11. Policy Principles for Smart Cities i. Envision Smart Cities as Essential to Future Sustainability. For future sustainability and growth, the policies and programs need to recognize the importance of smart cities. For example, consider a transportation system which is more efficient, less costly, and more environmentally friendly. This is because of innovations introduced in intelligent transportation systems (ITS) and information and communications technology (ICT). ii. Encourage Transparency and Accountability. The policies developed should promote and encourage the use of smart technologies to monitor and measure the government progress and indicate the performance levels to the public. In order to build new services and solutions to benefit the citizens, smart cities should promote public access of government data.
12. Policies and Acts The following are the few Policies and Acts connected to the smart cities. i. The Information Technology Act ii. E-Governance Act iii. Right to privacy Act iv. Internet of Things (IoT) policy v. National Cyber Security Policy, 2013 vi. Drone Policy
13. Policies and Acts • The Information Technology Act. The Information Technology Act, 2000 (also known IT Act) is an Act of the Indian Parliament. The Information Technology Act directs the purview of internet activities in India. The Act was developed and implemented to administer legal concession to e-transactions, validate digital contracts and regulate online services. The smart city development will include various components dealing with software, designs, network and manufacturing of devices. There will be a surge in big data, that is enormous sets of unstructured data is assessed computationally to figure out the patterns relating to human behaviour. At present, the term data, as per the Act, is defined as representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or instructions being prepared in a formal manner and processed in a computer system
8.Policies and Acts • E-Governance Act. The Act recognizes e-governance by providing legal sanctity to digital signatures, electronic service delivery and retention of electronic records. Sharing and exchanging of information between government and private parties will be at the core of the Mission. • Right to privacy Act. Right to privacy is a constitutional right, yet the Act is incomplete as the provisions are confined to the protection of personal data under the Information Technology rules. These Rules regulate private entities and exclude the government from its ambit. The Act and Rules define "personal information" as information relating to a natural person and excludes real-time data.
8. Policies and Acts • Internet of Things (IoT) policy. IoT is a seamless connected network of embedded objects/ devices, with identifiers, in which machine to machine communication without any human intervention is possible using standard and interoperable communication protocols. (Tablets, Phones and PCs are not included as part of IoT). The objective of IoT policy is to undertake capacity development for IoT specific skill-sets for domestic and international markets. The goal is to develop IoT products specific to Indian needs in the domains of agriculture, health, water quality, natural disasters, transportation, security, automobile, supply chain management, smart cities, Automated metering and monitoring of utilities, waste management, Oil & Gas etc.
9. Policies and Acts • Internet of Things (IoT) policy. The Policy framework of the IoT Policy has been proposed to be implemented via a multi-pillar approach. i. Demonstration Centres ii. Capacity Building & Incubation iii. R&D and Innovation iv. Incentives and Engagements v. Human Resource Development vi. Standards vii. Governance structure
Figure 13.8: IoT Policy Pillars Standards Incentives & Engagement | R&D And Innovations | Capacity Building & Incubation | Demonstration Centre | Human Resource Development Governance Structure
8. Policies and Acts The following are few IoT policies which are laid by government: • To develop domain specific strategies for IoT including green building, smart grid, industrial monitoring, agriculture, smart cities, healthcare, connected homes, telematics and supply chain, safety and security, forest and wildlife, automotive, natural disasters, etc. • To Identify domain specific applications/ prototypes which are of highest priority and inclusive in benefits. • To facilitate global and national participation of industry and research bodies for promoting standards around IoT technologies developed in the country.
9. Policies and Acts • To appoint relevant nodal organization for driving and formalizing standards relating to technology, process, interoperability and services like: i. IoT standardization ii. Spectrum energy communication protocols standards iii. Standards for communication within and outside the cloud. iv. International quality/integrity standards for data creation, data traceability. v. Standards for Energy consumption vi. Safety standards (for example, if devices/sensors are used on humans) vii. Privacy and Security Standards.
10. Policies and Acts • To create national expert committee for developing and adopting IoT standards in the country. • To promote Venture Funds of Electronic Development Fund specifically directed to support companies in IoT related domains like Memory, Processor, Sensors, Low power devices and solar electronics. This will be in the form of low/ Zero cost funding of eligible projects. • To launch a program to be driven by an existing/ new society through promotion of exports from the IoT products and services by facilitating space requirement and strengthening the communication infrastructure at a subsidized rate for setting up IoT development Centers in the country.
11. Policies and Acts • To fund R&D in IoT for specific applications of common good through call for proposals. • To create an IoT Education and Awareness program in DeitY for developing skill sets for IoT at all levels. • To set up a High-Level Advisory Committee (AC) including representatives from Government, industry and academia for providing ongoing guidance in the emerging area of IoT. The drafted policy reveals the government's intention is to focus on research and development to further the progress of IoT and to promote venture funds which will aid and support entities working in IoT related domains by providing 100% duty benefit for imported raw materials for manufacturing IoT products.
12. Policies and Acts • National Cyber Security Policy, 2013. To fill the present gaps of laws to deal with cybercrimes, the government has introduced the National Cyber Security Policy (NCSP), 2013, which perceives cyber space as a crucial sector and aims to build security methods and mechanisms at sectoral and national levels. It serves as a framework for developing and guiding the actions related to security of cyberspace. It also facilitates the individual sectors and organizations in defining appropriate cyber security policies which suits their needs. This policy outlines some pointers to enable collaborative working of all key players in public & private to safeguard country's information and information systems. This policy, therefore, aims to create a cyber security framework, which leads to specific actions and programmes to enhance the security posture of country's cyber space.
13. Policies and Acts The Policy recommends i. Formation of a National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC), which is responsible for advocating security practices related to acquisition, design, development and use of information. ii. A nodal center (agency) to coordinate all matters concerned with cyber security iii. To identify and appoint a Chief Information Security Officer, to lead the internal security measures in organizations iv. Encouragement of partnership between the private sector and government to improve open standards for certified IT products v. Joint development of a cyber security framework with other countries that recognizes the applicability of international law and the UN Charter
14. Policies and Acts • Drone Policy. The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) updated Drone Rules and policies, 2021 for public consultation. According to the drafted Drone Rules 2021, operating drones without unique identification number will not be approved, unless exempted. Drone operators will have to produce a unique identification number of a drone by providing requisite details on the digital sky platform. Digital sky platform is an initiative by MoCA to provide a secure and a scalable platform that supports drone technology frameworks, such as NPNT (no permission, no take-off), designed to enable flight permission digitally and managing unmanned aircraft operations and traffic efficiently. The draft Drone Rules 2021 also have safety features such real-time tracking beacon, and geofencing.
Table 1: Classification of drones Sl. No | Drone type | Weight 1 | Nano drone | < 250 grams 2 | Micro drone | >250 grams but <2 kilograms 3 | Small drone | >2 kilograms but < 25 kilograms 4 | Medium drone | > 25 kilograms but < 150 kilograms 5 | Large drone | > 150 kilograms
9. Transportation Policy Travel in the city has become riskier with accident rates having gone up from 1.6 lakh to over 3.9 lakh in recent years. Also, increased use of personal vehicles has led to increased air pollution. Cities must not only meet the mobility needs of the current population but also provide for the needs of those yet to join the urban population. For urban areas to be able to support the required level of economic activity, they must provide for the easy and sustainable flow of goods and people.
10. Transportation Policy The objective of the transportation policy is to ensure safe, affordable, quick, comfortable, reliable and sustainable access for the growing number of city residents to jobs, education, recreation and such other needs within the cities. Following are the transportation policies laid by the government. i. In the sphere of road infrastructure Government will endeavour to augment road capacity by promoting, Corridor Management Plan, Way-side amenities, parking space etc. ii. Government will strive to strengthen road maintenance activities through Pavement Management System and Bridge Management System for proper up keep of road network.
11. Transportation Policy i. The Government will take steps to strengthen public road transport to facilitate access to essential socio-economic services and provide affordable mobility ii. Passenger road connectivity to semi urban and rural areas: Providing affordable mobility to people who do not have access to personalized mode and reside in rural and remote areas is an important objective of the Government. iii. Government will facilitate setting up Independent Road Transport Regulator at State level with following functions in view of the liberalisation and deregulation across various sectors of Indian economy. iv. Government will facilitate smooth and seamless flow of freight movement by road across States/UTs so as to foster single barrier free domestic market
12. Transportation Policy i. The Government will spell out the institutional responsibilities of stake holders and measures to promote road Safety, traffic management and post-accident care viii. Government will create a policy framework to foster sustainable roadtransport which is efficient in terms of resource use (fuel, road space etc), puts less strain on environment and affordable ii. Government will promote of R&D in transport Sector iii. Government will make concerted efforts to curb the menace of Vehicle Overloading
13. Summary A smart city is a framework, consists of ICT, to develop, deploy, and promote sustainable development practices to address growing urbanization challenges. Proper regulatory framework should be laid for the effective implementation of smart cities. The policies and acts should be developed by the involvement of stakeholders to meet the objectives and goals of smart cities. A policy is whatever government chooses to do or not to do. The policies that are framed in regard of smart cities should involve stakeholders, encourage investment and innovation, enable connectivity, integrate privacy and security and encourage open participation. Some of the Policies and Acts which are connected to the smart cities are The Information Technology Act, EGovernance Act, Right to privacy Act, IoT policy, National Cyber Security Policy, 2013, Drone Policy.
SUMMARY
1. STUDY QUESTIONS
2. CHALLENGE QUESTIONS
Thank You

